---
author: Marcus Pöhls
publishedAt: 2021-11-12
tags: [release, sttp]
title: Sttp 1.0
---

The new [@supercharge/sttp](https://github.com/supercharge/sttp) package has been published the in the NPM registry 🥳 Version `1.0` is now available to everyone.


### What is Sttp?
Sttp is an HTTP client for a pleasant developer experience. It wraps the [axios](https://github.com/axios/axios) library providing a fluent interface to expressively compose your HTTP requests.


### Documentation
An [extensive documentation for Sttp is available in the docs](https://superchargejs.com/docs/sttp). Sweet!


### Why Not Use Axios Directly?
Sttp is an axios wrapper. So “why not use axios directly"?

Sttp (like axios) should make your life as a developer enjoyable. And I don’t enjoy working axios directly. Everything is configured using objects. But the editors and IDEs are not good at showing IntelliSense for objects. It’s always a guess on what to configure.

Do you find yourself looking at the axios docs on how to send query parameters? Or searching for the config key to send a request payload? Yeah, same here. I hate that.

Sttp solves that config-guessing by providing a fluent and expressive interface. Configure a request using Sttp’s chainable methods. You’ll also notice that Sttp’s requests are more readable.

Another thing is that axios throws an error when receiving a response with status code `>= 400`. Who thinks throwing an error for a valid response is the correct behavior? Sttp always returns a response instance. The Sttp response comes with handy methods to determine whether it’s a success, redirect, or error response.


### Sttp Example
You may send a POST request with query parameters, request headers, and payload like this:

```js
import { Sttp } from '@supercharge/sttp'

const response = await Sttp
  .withQueryParams({ page: 3 })
  .withHeaders({ 'X-API-Token': 123 })
  .withPayload({ name: 'Supercharge' })
  .post('https://your-api.com/v2/users')
```

Then use the `response` instance to process the returned data. For example, you can call:

```js
if (response.isSuccess()) {
  return response.payload()
  // { id: 1, name: 'Supercharge' }
}

if (response.isError()) {
  return response.payload()
  // { statusCode: 401, message: 'Invalid X-API-Token' }
}
```

Enjoy Sttp!
